readme.md, before:

﻿![Microchip logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony.github.io/images/microchip_logo.png)
![Harmony logo small](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/wiki/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony.github.io/images/microchip_mplab_harmony_logo_small.png)

# MPLAB® Harmony 3 replaceme

MPLAB® Harmony 3 is an extension of the MPLAB® ecosystem for creating embedded firmware solutions for Microchip 32-bit SAM and PIC® microcontroller and microprocessor devices.  Refer to the following links for more information.

- [Microchip 32-bit MCUs](https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit)
- [Microchip 32-bit MPUs](https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit-mpus)
- [Microchip MPLAB X IDE](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide)
- [Microchip MPLAB® Harmony](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony)
- [Microchip MPLAB® Harmony Pages](https://microchip-mplab-harmony.github.io/)

This repository contains the MPLAB® Harmony 3 replaceme solutions and example applications. Quickly incorporate connectivity to your designs with replaceme ICs, modules, software and development kits that make connecting effortless for your customers. Our comprehensive replaceme portfolio has the technology to meet your range, data rate, interoperability, frequency and topology needs. Refer to the following links for release notes, training materials, and interface reference information.

- [Release Notes](./release_notes.md)
- [MPLAB® Harmony License](mplab_harmony_license.md)
- [MPLAB® Harmony 3 replaceme Wiki](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/replaceme/wiki)
- [MPLAB® Harmony 3 replaceme API Help](https://microchip-mplab-harmony.github.io/replaceme)

# Contents Summary

| Folder     | Description                                               |
| ---        | ---                                                       |
| apps        | Example applications for replaceme library components      |
| config     | replaceme module configuration file                        |
| docs       | replaceme library help documentation                       |
| drivers    | Driver/Firmware files for different products              |


____

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Harmony%20license-orange.svg)](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/replaceme/blob/master/mplab_harmony_license.md)
[![Latest release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/replaceme.svg)](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/replaceme/releases/latest)
[![Latest release date](https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/replaceme.svg)](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/replaceme/releases/latest)
[![Commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/replaceme.svg)](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/replaceme/graphs/commit-activity)
[![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors-anon/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/replaceme.svg)]()

____

[![Follow us on Youtube](https://img.shields.io/badge/Youtube-Follow%20us%20on%20Youtube-red.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/user/MicrochipTechnology)
[![Follow us on LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-Follow%20us%20on%20LinkedIn-blue.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/microchip-technology)
[![Follow us on Facebook](https://img.shields.io/badge/Facebook-Follow%20us%20on%20Facebook-blue.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/microchiptechnology/)
[![Follow us on Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/MicrochipTech.svg?style=social)](https://twitter.com/MicrochipTech)

[![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/replaceme.svg?style=social)]()
[![](https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/replaceme.svg?style=social)]()

Commit message:

Added readme.md for the dual role demo [MH3-47321]. Updated all initial files with repo related information [MH3-47321]. Added USB Dual Role demos as part of restructuring [MH3-47321].

readme.md, after:

﻿---
title: Harmony 3 USB Dual Role application examples
nav_order: 1
has_children: true
has_toc: false
---
[![MCHP](https://www.microchip.com/ResourcePackages/Microchip/assets/dist/images/logo.png)](https://www.microchip.com)

# Harmony 3 USB Dual Role application examples

MPLAB® Harmony 3 is an extension of the MPLAB® ecosystem for creating embedded firmware solutions for Microchip 32-bit SAM and PIC® microcontroller and microprocessor devices.  Refer to the following links for more information.

- [Microchip 32-bit MCUs](https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit)
- [Microchip 32-bit MPUs](https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/32-bit-mpus)
- [Microchip MPLAB X IDE](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide)
- [Microchip MPLAB® Harmony](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-harmony)
- [Microchip MPLAB® Harmony Pages](https://microchip-mplab-harmony.github.io/)

This repository contains the MPLAB® Harmony 3 USB Dual Role application examples. 

- [Release Notes](release_notes.md)
- [MPLAB® Harmony License](mplab_harmony_license.md)

To clone or download these applications from Github, go to the [main page of this repository](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_dual_role) and then click **Clone** button to clone this repository or download as zip file.
This content can also be downloaded using content manager by following these [instructions](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/contentmanager/wiki).

# Contents Summary

| Folder     | Description                                               |
| ---        | ---                                                       |
| apps       | Contains Harmony 3 USB Dual Role application examples |
| docs       | Contains documentation in html format for offline viewing (to be used only after cloning this repository onto a local machine). Use [github pages](https://microchip-mplab-harmony.github.io/usb_apps_dual_role/) of this repository for viewing it online. |

## Code Examples

The following applications are provided to demonstrate the typical or interesting usage models of USB Dual Role capabilities.

| Name                      | Description            |
| ------------------------- | ---------------------- |
| MSD Host and HID Device   | This application creates a USB Dual Role application that can switch between USB Host MSD Stack and USB Device HID function. The role switch is trigger by a switch press. In the USB Host mode, the application performs read and write operations to a USB pen drive. In the USB Device mode, the application emulates a HID mouse. |

____

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Harmony%20license-orange.svg)](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_dual_role/blob/master/mplab_harmony_license.md)
[![Latest release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_dual_role.svg)](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_dual_role/releases/latest)
[![Latest release date](https://img.shields.io/github/release-date/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_dual_role.svg)](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_dual_role/releases/latest)
[![Commit activity](https://img.shields.io/github/commit-activity/y/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_dual_role.svg)](https://github.com/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_dual_role/graphs/commit-activity)
[![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors-anon/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_dual_role.svg)]()

____

[![Follow us on Youtube](https://img.shields.io/badge/Youtube-Follow%20us%20on%20Youtube-red.svg)](https://www.youtube.com/user/MicrochipTechnology)
[![Follow us on LinkedIn](https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-Follow%20us%20on%20LinkedIn-blue.svg)](https://www.linkedin.com/company/microchip-technology)
[![Follow us on Facebook](https://img.shields.io/badge/Facebook-Follow%20us%20on%20Facebook-blue.svg)](https://www.facebook.com/microchiptechnology/)
[![Follow us on Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/MicrochipTech.svg?style=social)](https://twitter.com/MicrochipTech)

[![](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_dual_role.svg?style=social)]()
[![](https://img.shields.io/github/watchers/Microchip-MPLAB-Harmony/usb_apps_dual_role.svg?style=social)]()
